um welcome everyone to the ipvs pinning
summit um
super excited to get to talk to you all
today
and so excited for our amazing speakers
and folks who are going to be
sharing more about the work they're
doing in ipvs pending summit later today
i'm going to start off kick things off
for you this well it's morning here in
pst
um talking about some of the growth and
opportunities
and and kind of new new things we're
seeing in the ips ecosystem
and then hopefully also set the stage
for a lot of our presenters later
for those of you who are not super
familiar with ipfs ipvs is designed to
make the web work peer-to-peer
so instead of a centralized http model
where
many devices all push their connections
and and data through a central server
which addresses and hosts all their
content
if us designed to directly connect um
nodes with each other so that they can
collaborate in a much more flexible
resilient way
so that even when a subset of nodes go
offline or aren't able to connect to
other nodes in the network they're still
able to collaborate and use the tools
they rely on
ipvs does this by using content
addressing so instead of addressing
content by where it's located in the
network or what entity is hosting that
data
it addresses the content directly by its
cryptographic
and this allows us to be much more
flexible about where we fetch data from
how we move it around the network how we
de-duplicate it how we verify
that data is what we expect it to be
instead of you know
whatever example.com wants to send us
for baz.png
um and has a lot of other great
properties
ipvs aims to address a number of
problems um
a couple of those are censorship so
being more resistant to authoritarian
control
um being more resilient to going offline
as i mentioned being able to collaborate
even if you are losing a central
connection to a server
that's fine in ipfs you want to be much
more resilient to the connections you
can make between devices
that also lets you be more efficient so
if there's already
a copy of data you care about near you
you can use that copy you don't
have to go to some central authority in
order to fetch it over and over and over
again
this is also good from a security
perspective and an emerging network
perspective as well
putting less load on on kind of central
um internet access
so i'm going to talk to you a little bit
very quickly about ips ecosystem growth
probably a lot of you already familiar
with the exciting things that have been
happening in the ips ecosystem
but quick refresher for folks there are
tons of applications building in the
ipvs ecosystem and building businesses
from kind of content curation and
sharing
to social networks to kind of data
management
identity services blockchains efi
a ton of amazing applications that are
all building
in this space and collaborating and
sharing data with each other
um and this is growing a lot as well we
see many more applications coming in
here i think i've had to extend this
down
a couple of times from an ecosystem
diagram perspective to fit in
more applications that are coming a
couple notable highlights
from just q1 in terms of the the awesome
things that have been
happening in the ipfs ecosystem um you
had
opera adding support default built-in
support for ippfs
in their their android browser brave
launched their swag store on ipfs
wolfram alpha or from language has
default support for ipfs as an external
storage
option um we saw a number of websites
like the ethereum
website but coming to ipfs and hosting
themselves here
um taking taking advantage of all of the
new um
decentralized tlds so now we see a
proliferation of eth and crypto and zill
and other decentralized domains um
we did a ton of work with with netflix
over kind of the q3 q4 time frame
um and talked about that as part of the
release we did
making bitswap a lot faster and more
performant there's a new rust ipfs
out there that folks can participate and
contribute to um that's
optimizing itself for use in kind of
more
more constrained devices iot cases
things like that
um just recently textile hub came on the
scene
which is really exciting fleek who
you'll also hear from later today
and ceramic as well are all doing
awesome work and launching new projects
um and and building tools within the
ipfs ecosystem that help build
build up all developers and and give us
the
capabilities we need to keep innovating
and pushing pushing the ball forward
from
the perspective of projects building on
top of ipfs
so as you can see lots of cool stuff
happening just in the past couple of
months
one notable improvement as well was the
ipfs 0.5 launch which you'll hear about
from steven shortly
which ushered in a lot of ipvs
performance improvements
um it was the largest launch we've done
in years to
the core go ipfs implementation
um and and helped speed up a ton of
important areas for the ipfs project
um kind of across the gamut from adding
new
new content and data to ipfs to
providing that data
and sending it out sharing it in the
network to finding that data
quickly from other nodes that are
hosting it and then
fetching that data from them every
single part of the life cycle of data in
ipfs
is faster which is awesome
one one point in particular a major
focus for this was content routing speed
so how quickly you can find the data
you want in the network and we've
already seen really serious
improvements um just in the public
network
that we only have i think you know
something between 12
and 20 000 people have upgraded to the
um
to ipfs 0.5 um we're still we're already
seeing
massive improvements here in terms of
the the content writing speed i'm sure
stephen will tell
us more more about the the latest update
soon
um in addition to content routing we
also improve transfer speed this is all
of the the work that we did
um with netflix in order to benchmark
and
hone our data transfer algorithms
and so here for our benchmarks around
container image distribution
we went from an original three
three seconds down to one second um
which is awesome and
even better in comparison to something
like docker hub
where we're able to really improve on
these benchmarks which is great
so i wanted to talk a little bit
specifically as it relates to
folks in this in this ecosystem where
we're
trying to build infrastructure and
services and tools to help the entire
ipfs network grow
and accelerate for three particularly
growing segments we're seeing within
ipfs
and and then talk also a little bit
about how they relate the
opportunities that they're opening up
for folks from the infrastructure
perspective
so the first one of those is the web3
ecosystem this is probably very familiar
to all of us
we spend a lot of time thinking about
all of the amazing tools and
kind of new capabilities that web 3 is
adding to the web today
and we see really strong adoption of
ipfs in this for article
um one of those examples is the
proliferation of websites built on ipfs
that's been happening over you know it's
been happening for a while but it's
really picked up speed in the last four
four months or so and i really think
it's thanks to the tools
and capabilities that folks are bringing
into
the the ecosystem and making it so easy
for someone to
very quickly deploy their own website or
a decentralized front end for their
application
um onto ipfs it you know now there are
uploaders built into all of these
decentralized domain names
um fleek has come and it is doing very
seamless
like um you know netlify style github
uploading
i think the tooling here has
precipitated
that massive increase i originally had
like
screenshots of um all of almanet.eth
and the crypto domain listing because
there were just so many sites but it was
overwhelming you couldn't even see so i
just chose
a subset of of the tlds that that
represent sites being built on ipfs
but this is a really growing area and a
lot of i think there's now
thousands and thousands of these
websites floating around that people can
um use seamlessly over ipfs which is
great
i mentioned also people who are building
front ends
for their applications in ipfs in order
to be decentralized and then by have a
decentralized backend say built on a
smart contract
and that's particularly popular in the
d5 space where you see a lot of
kind of web wallets or um kind of other
d5
tools being built where they put the
front end for their tooling in ipfs
connect it to a smart contract on a
blockchain like ethereum
and through that they're able to have a
fully decentralized ecosystem
um and and the tooling can be accessed
from anywhere and self-hosted
and and that's a something also that's
been accelerating as it's gotten easier
to put things on
on ipf like deploy websites on ipfs this
has grown as well
um and i think we're seeing a lot of
progress and i expect it to continue
accelerating over the next couple of
months
so clearly web 3 is like a is the bread
and butter for a lot of these tools
um and it's been growing a lot as well
so there's this is a small subset of all
of the
the different applications that are
thriving within the web3 ecosystem
and that are using ipfs by default as
the way they do content addressable
storage
um to highlight just two that i think
are particularly beautiful
um one is audios they're a distributed
music platform i'm kind of like a
soundcloud uh alternative but where
every artist
is uploading songs to their own ipfs
node can have control over their music
and
and their relationship with their
friends and
um they have a web app a mobile app i
use this regularly
there's an indie artist who has an
amazing um into the unknown
remix kind of re-reshaping of the song
it's beautiful
and um really excited about the kind of
level of
polish that's coming to applications
being built
in web3 ecosystem today where
it's it's leaning into what capabilities
can we add
that that really solve problems for a
user group so this one is
you know making you know supporting
musicians in the relationships they want
to have with their music and with their
fans
um and making sure that the web 3 part
augments that experience and enables
that
while still having the beautiful like
user journey
that you'd expect from uh kind of a
classic web 2
site which is amazing um the other
example i'll
highlight fleek um i loved using the in
order to put up my own personal website
on
on ipfs and again this is adding the
critical piece of tooling and simplicity
to to make a something that was already
possible accessible to a much broader
population
and i think this is a really critical
insight as you make
the tooling and infrastructure easier
and easier to use as you simplify that
ux flow
um more your adoption rate just
skyrockets because you you don't
constrain yourself to people who
need to understand the technical
underpinnings need to be familiar with
with more technical tools like using the
command line you know it explodes in
terms of people who are excited and see
potential use cases for how this
how web3 how how the tooling we're
building can solve problems
so pieces of tooling can have massive
impact
um and i think that's a an important
lesson for all of us building the space
all right so that's web3 ecosystem which
i think is doing amazing work
i also wanted to talk a little bit about
developer tooling where i think there's
growing adoption that we don't quite
have the um
kind of diversity and and kind of
strength that web 3 does
this is increasing a lot um and also a
huge opportunity for us
um i'd class the work we did with uh
with
netflix on improving bitswap within this
world where you're trying to distribute
container images
um very quickly peer-to-peer but you're
you're taking ipfs and applying it to
a um kind of a devops pipeline
ci cd how do we make it faster how do we
make it more efficient
um you know how do we how to use content
addressable storage
to solve problems either in a web 2
system
or or by upgrading just the necessary
components
to to utilize web3 and and i think this
is a
a great example of where we can kind of
have bridge opportunities
um between the web 3 world and web 2
ecosystems
where they're again trying to fight for
efficiency and performance
um this this kind of uh talks to the
opportunities here with devops tooling
things like docker hub things with ci cd
um i think there's
growing growing interest in adoption
here um thinking of using ipvs for vm
distribution
um other other kind of workflows in the
uh the operation space and so a lot of
of new nascent projects coming up in
this space
one i'll mention is we did we did a
chunk of work with um
making ipfs faster and more efficient
for package management
and so um open work starting up with
getting mix which is one of the
one of the package managers we we talked
with a lot
working on top of ipfs you can have your
build
outputs or even intermediary build steps
on ipfs
um we also have a project for for a
while called
npm on ipfs which allows you to more
more resiliently mirror and decentralize
where you're fetching your
your npm files from and this allowed you
i think we actually brought to iqbus
camp a
seven terabyte drive of all of the npm
data so that it was there
on site and you didn't have to go um
fetch
npm files and repos from some distant
place someone was already hosting them
so if you used npm on ipfs
it was right there within our local ipfs
camp
wi-fi um
we also have pac command
on top of ipfs um ruben did this on top
of ifest cluster
so you can now follow the um pacman
repository here and hold a mirror
um very seamlessly just by kind of
joining his cluster follow
and so generally this idea of taking
decentralizing the people who are
mirroring
package manager registries and doing
that in a content addressable way
has benefits around deduplication and
sending data peer-to-peer
and so finally i wanted to talk briefly
about large data
um there's been a ton of groups just
kind of one of the aspects of ipfs that
people have long been excited about and
there's a number of projects in the
space
but i think what we're going to see over
the next
the next couple of months the next six
months or so is just a massive explosion
in this large data space
we already have things like wikipedia on
ipfs both
english wikipedia and turkish wikipedia
making sure that
ipfs is censorship resistant and all of
this
critical knowledge for humanity is
accessible
um on on these sorts of platforms um so
a collaborative cluster for
project gutenberg in spanish i believe
so there's a number of these data sets
that are already on ifs
and and many people can participate in
helping um
kind of spread and make accessible but
bringing more and more of the critical
data that humanity wants to rely on that
we want to be resilient to any sort of
fault
and um and we want to make sure is is
going to be
available a hundred years now so that we
can um
you know be building our interstellar uh
society
you know using all of this knowledge and
resources this is a kind of a growing
area and
um i think something that we'll we'll
see the next couple months
um there's a number of data sets already
up on ipfs
on where you can just browse through
these
and help pin and host them um there's
the work that the filecoin team has done
around starlings making it really easy
for people to do
decentralized storage and data
preservation
and a ton of other opportunities around
vr
and video and other large data sets
um a lot of whom are are thinking in the
file coin space where like great you
have huge amounts of data how do you
find a cheap
storage alternative where you can make
make that data accessible and long lived
a meta point here as we look at all
these spaces it definitely feels like
we're on an accelerating uh trajectory
or curve
the inflection point happening with the
ecosystem where
the proliferation of websites the
proliferation of tooling
and the professionalization like the the
extent to which the ux
is upgrading around this tooling is
really amazing to see
um you know all of these applications
you know last
last year at this time like many of
these groups weren't on the map for us
and so it's awesome to think forward of
all of the new groups
um that will be coming and joining and
participating in this ecosystem
um just in the past year we saw a 30x
increase in the number of nodes
participating in the ipfs network
so now there's hundreds of thousands of
nodes who are all
you know collaborating sharing data
working together to help make the ipvs
ecosystem um so vibrant um and so that
that level of growth you know we're
we're making sure that we're ready now
for that next 30x
from a performance and reliability
standpoint um so we can keep being on
this amazing trajectory um
and and we're seeing some signs that
those things are continuing so
uh for example we run one of many ipfs
gateways
um on the core team and we've seen about
a four to five x
increase um in the number of requests
we're seeing per day so now it's about
13 million
requests a day um accessing about five
terabytes of data
and so we're definitely continuing to
see increased adoption and utilization
of the tools and resources within the
ips ecosystem
it's generally hard to get a read on
these large decentralized networks and
how they're growing and improving
um so we use the signals we can
all right so thinking a little bit about
the the ecosystem of infra tools
within ipfs um i'll highlight two in
particular which i think are really well
represented
here in the people who are going to be
talking later today
just as a quick overview for folks who
are are new or
kind of nascent in the space so one is
pinning services
and these are are our applications or
services
where a user say um
wants to pin some data wants the data to
continue to be accessible in the ipvs
network
even when their own personal node goes
offline
and so a lot of examples here are like
you know i have my own local node
running on my laptop
but even when my laptop goes offline or
i go i move somewhere else
i want to make sure this data is
accessible and maybe accessible in
multiple different locations
maybe having resilient copies so
replicated in a lot of different areas
and i want it to be edge cached i wanted
to be close to the people
who are trying to download it and access
it and so there's a number of of groups
within the the ipfs ecosystem all of
whom are providing this sort of service
this persistence
service to node and ipvs network who
want to be more ephemeral but want the
data
that they care about their photo
collection their
application data their um you know other
other important metadata about uh their
node want
that to continue being accessible um so
that's one major class
another example is is gateways http
gateways
um so thriving network of pfs nodes that
are interoperating with each other
but still a number of folks who are
accessing
um the the data in the ivfs network are
coming through
normal web browsers that are using http
um and so this makes sure
that that bridge is well accounted for
it
and it's you have a you know fast
reliable
uh highly accessible access from http
into icos content and so many many web 3
applications
rely on http gateways in order to make
make their data accessible so if you're
not bundling
a local node within either a web a
website or
a tool that you're relying upon say you
know maybe
you're on a mobile device and you're
being very constrained about the
resources you're using
um if you're not embedding a local node
then you're using something like an http
gateway
in order to bring the data from the ips
network to these endpoints in the
ecosystem
um and there's a ton of people who are
offering http gateways as i was
mentioning
there's cloudflare infura a ton of
others and you can go to this public
gateway checker to see
all of the the various gateways that
exist um
but but this is kind of also a growing
place where um
you know if if you're storing data in
ipvs network you also want to make sure
it's highly accessible
and not just to people who are already
running ipfs nodes but to the the wider
world as we continue on this upgrade
path and trajectory
so this implies some opportunities
looking at the areas in the that ipfs
adoption and the ecosystem is growing
thinking about the sort of tools that
people are already finding niches for in
the ibfs ecosystem today
um there's opportunities going forward
for ipvs infrared
to to provide more so
looking at these opportunities for web3
in particular this is
things like pinning services so pinning
application data
making sure that that stays around as an
app developer
maybe don't want to run all of your own
node infrastructure and so utilizing a
service that helps back up all of your
app data
or that even works directly with your
users from an application perspective
so that they're backing up their own app
data with a service
provider um that's a major area of
opportunity
http gateways are also very common
there's a number of
um you know many of the web three tools
used
in some way or another when you have
users who don't have an embedded ipfs
node to make it more accessible
we're also seeing more kind of network
infrastructure come online that
massively unlocks adoption and growth an
example i'll call out here
is ifdns which is a project we did with
the ethereum name service
um and and what this does is it this is
the part where you can
take like ethereum dot if and add dot
link to the end of it
and then even if you aren't running meta
mask or ipvs companion or a local node
or anything like that
you're now able to look up that
decentralized tld
and those small pieces of infrastructure
make um
make these services and make web3 in
general just much more easy for
people to adopt and come over from web 2
you know gateway
um i guess it literally is a gateway but
um
pulling people from kind of one one
ecosystem to the next making it a very
easy on-ramp and growth
so they can start understanding the
value that's
that's possible for them here um there's
also things like
developer tooling sdks and just easier
interfaces or alternative interfaces to
make it really easy to use ipfs
looking in the developer tooling space
um definitely tooling around ci cd
pipelines or other
aspects of developer tooling that that
can be
augmented by by peer-to-peer tools
or by content addressing um the the
difference here is being able to truly
demonstrate that the performance is
better so this is
testing tooling and and benchmarks and
validation
but then also kind of the seamless way
that it would fit into an enterprise
use case the management layer
you know all of the the diagnostics
telemetry
other infrastructure that you would
actually need to do this to deploy
ipfs into say a local cloud or
an enterprise pipeline or something like
that i think there are huge
opportunities here that are mostly
under um undertaken advantage of so lots
of opportunity for folks to to build in
this space
and maybe we'll get the next you know uh
alternative to docker built
on top of ipvs um
and then finally large data there's a
couple of
of things in this space that make this
more accessible things like ipfs cluster
which does
replication across many different nodes
um
you can imagine more tools around
erasure coding
around caching and route routing
services so that when you have
very very large data sets think internet
archives scale of
of data um that you can quickly upload
data sets like that to ipfs
and that you can cache the most
important or the
hot parts of of that data so they're
highly available
you can even do like more intelligent
routing strategies over top of these
large data sets
um and then the sort of tooling and
dashboards around
managing data sets like this for large
organizations and institutions
um i think this is also a huge
opportunity like
when you think about groups who have a
lot of this large data
they need the tooling that helps them
bring it
to the people within web3 who want to
take advantage of it
and so this is i think also a big
opportunity from an infra perspective
and thank you so much really excited for
today it's going to be an
awesome awesome time and over to
steven to share some of the notable
improvements in
ipvs 0.5